Problem 1
=========

Description
-----------

If we list all the natural numbers below 10 that are multiples of 3 or 5, we get
3, 5, 6 and 9. The sum of these multiples is 23. Find the sum of all the
multiples of 3 or 5 below 1000.

Getting the vector
------------------

> **2.1 Vectors and assignment**
> 
> R operates on named *data structures*. The simplest structure is the numeric
> *vector*, which is a single entity consiting of an ordered collection of
> numbers. To set up a vector named <code>x</code>, say, consisting of five
> numbers, namely 10.4, 5.6, 3.1, 6.4 and 21.7, use the R command
> 
>     x <- c(10.4, 5.6, 3.1, 6.4, 21.7)
> 
> This is an *assignment* statement using the *function* <code>c()</code>
> which in this context can take an arbitrary number of vecotr *arguments* and
> whose value is a vector got by concatenating its arguments end to end.
> 
> A number occurring by itself in an expression is taken as a vector of length
> one.
> 
> Notice that the assignment operator ('<code><-</code>'), which consists of the
> two characters '<code><</code>' ("less than") and '<code>-</code>' ("minus")
> occurring strictly side-by-side and it 'points' to the object receiving the
> value of the expression. In most contexts the '<code>=</code>' operator can be
> used as an alternative. Assignment can also be made using the function
> <code>assign()</code>. An equivalent way of making the same assignment as
> above is with:
> 
>     assign("x", c(10.4, 5.6, 3.1, 6.4, 21.7))
> 
> The usual operator, <code><-</code>, can be thought of as a syntactic
> short-cut to this.
> 
> Assignments can also be made in the other direction, using the obvious change
> in the assignment operator. So the same assignment could be made using
> 
>     c(10.4, 5.6, 3.1, 6.4, 21.7) -> x
> 
> If an expression is used as a complete command, the value is printed *and
> lost*. So now if we were to use the command
> 
>     1/x
> 
> the reciprocals of the five values would be printed at the terminal (and the
> value of <code>x</code>, of course, unchanged).
> 
> The further assignment
> 
>     y <- c(x, 0, x)
> 
> would create a vector <code>y</code> with 11 entries consisting of two copies
> of <code>x</code> with a zero in the middle place.

> **2.3 Generating regular sequences**
> 
> R has a number of facilities for generating commonly used sequences of
> numbers. For example <code>1:30</code> is the vector <code>c(1, 2, ..., 29,
> 30)</code>. The colon operator has high priority within an expression, so, for
> example <code>2*1:15</code> is the vector <code>c(2, 4, ..., 28, 30)</code>.
> Put <code>n <- 10</code> and compare the sequences <code>1:n-1</code> and
> <code>1:(n-1)</code>.
> 
> [http://cran.r-project.org/doc/manuals/R-intro.html](http://cran.r-project.org/doc/manuals/R-intro.html)

Some useful R functions:

> <code>sort(x)</code> -- Sort the vector <code>x</code>
> 
> <code>unique(x)</code> -- Remove duplicate entries from vector
> 
> [http://www.sr.bham.ac.uk/~ajrs/R/r-function_list.html](http://www.sr.bham.ac.uk/~ajrs/R/r-function_list.html)

Calculating the sum
-------------------

> **Description**
> 
> <code>Reduce</code> uses a binary function to successively combine the
> elements of a given vector and a possibly given initial value.
> <code>Filter</code> extracts the elements of a vector for which a predicate
> (logical) function gives <code>true</code>. <code>Find</code> and
> <code>Position</code> give the first or last such element and its position in
> the vector, respectively. <code>Map</code> applies a function to the
> corresponding elements of given vectors. <code>Negate</code> creates the
> negation of a given function.
> 
> **Usage**
> 
>     Reduce(f, x, init, right = FALSE, accumulate = FALSE)
>     Filter(f, x)
>     Find(f, x, right = FALSE, nomatch = NULL)
>     Map(f, ...)
>     Negate(f)
>     Position(f, x, right = FALSE, nomatch = NA_integer_)
> 
> **Arguments**
> 
> <code>f</code> -- A function of the appropriate arity (binary for
> <code>Reduce>, unary for <code>Filter</code>, <code>Find</code> and
> <code>Position</code>, *k*-ary for <code>Map</code> if this is called with *k*
> arguments). An arbitrary predicate function for <code>Negate</code>.
> 
> <code>x</code> -- A vector.
> 
> <code>init</code> -- An R object of the same kind as the elements of
> <code>x</code>.
> 
> <code>right</code> -- A logical indicating whether to proceed from left to
> right (default) or from right to left.
> 
> <code>accumulate</code> -- A logical indicating whether the successive reduce
> combinations should be accumulated. By default, only the final combination is
> used.
> 
> <code>nomatch</code> -- The value to be returned in the case when "no match"
> (no element satisfying the predicate) is found.
> 
> <code>...</code> -- Vectors.
> 
> **Examples**
> 
>     ## A general-purpose cumulative adder:
>     cadd <- function(x) Reduce("+", x, accumulate = TRUE)
>     cadd(seq_len(7))
> 
> [http://stat.ethz.ch/R-manual/R-devel/library/base/html/funprog.html](http://stat.ethz.ch/R-manual/R-devel/library/base/html/funprog.html)

